docs/knn/settings.md, before:

---
layout: default
title: Settings
parent: KNN
nav_order: 10
---

# KNN Settings

The KNN plugin adds several new index settings, cluster settings, and statistics.


## Index settings

The default values should work well for most use cases, but you can change these settings when you create the index.

Setting | Default | Description
:--- | :--- | :---
`index.knn.algo_param.ef_search` | 512 | The size of the dynamic list used during KNN searches. Higher values lead to more accurate, but slower searches.
`index.knn.algo_param.ef_construction` | 512 | The size of the dynamic list used during KNN graph creation. Higher values lead to a more accurate graph, but slower indexing speed.
`index.knn.algo_param.m` | 16 | The number of bidirectional links that the plugin creates for each new element. Increasing and decreasing this value can have a large impact on memory consumption. Keep this value between 2-100.


## Cluster settings

Setting | Default | Description
:--- | :--- | :---
`knn.algo_param.index_thread_qty` | 1 | The number of threads used for graph creation. Keeping this value low reduces the CPU impact of the KNN plugin, but also reduces indexing performance.
`knn.cache.item.expiry.enabled` | false | Whether to remove graphs that have not been accessed for a certain duration from memory.
`knn.cache.item.expiry.minutes` | 3h | If enabled, the idle time before removing a graph from memory.
`knn.circuit_breaker.unset.percentage` | 75.0 | The native memory usage threshold for the circuit breaker. Memory usage must be below this percentage of `knn.memory.circuit_breaker.limit` for `knn.circuit_breaker.triggered` to remain false.
`knn.circuit_breaker.triggered` | false | True when memory usage exceeds the `knn.circuit_breaker.unset.percentage` value.
`knn.memory.circuit_breaker.limit` | 60% | The native memory limit for graphs. At the default value, if a machine has 100 GB of memory and the JVM uses 32 GB, KNN uses 60% of the remaining 68 GB (40.8 GB). If memory usage exceeds this value, KNN removes the least recently used graphs.
`knn.memory.circuit_breaker.enabled` | true | Whether to enable the KNN memory circuit breaker.
`knn.plugin.enabled`| true | Enables or disables the KNN plugin.


## Statistics

KNN includes statistics that can give you a sense for how the plugin is performing:

```
GET _opendistro/_knn/stats
```

You can also filter by node and/or statistic:

```
GET /_opendistro/_knn/nodeId1,nodeId2/stats/statName1,statName2
```

Statistic |  Description
:--- | :---
`totalLoadTime` | The time in nanoseconds that KNN has taken to load graphs into the cache.
`evictionCount` | The number of graphs that have been evicted from the cache due to memory constraints or idle time.
`hitCount` | The number of cache hits. A cache hit occurs when a user queries a graph and it is already loaded into memory.
`cacheCapacityReached` | Whether `knn.memory.circuit_breaker.limit` has been reached.
`loadSuccessCount` | The number of times KNN successfully loaded a graph into the cache.
`graphMemoryUsage` | Current cache size (total size of all graphs in memory) in kilobytes.
`missCount` | The number of cache misses. A cache miss occurs when a user queries a graph and it has not yet been loaded into memory.
`loadExceptionCount` | The number of times an exception occurred when trying to load a graph into the cache.

Commit message:

add documentation on consine similarity

docs/knn/settings.md, after:

---
layout: default
title: Settings
parent: KNN
nav_order: 10
---

# KNN Settings

The KNN plugin adds several new index settings, cluster settings, and statistics.


## Index settings

The default values should work well for most use cases, but you can change these settings when you create the index.

Setting | Default | Description
:--- | :--- | :---
`index.knn.algo_param.ef_search` | 512 | The size of the dynamic list used during KNN searches. Higher values lead to more accurate, but slower searches.
`index.knn.algo_param.ef_construction` | 512 | The size of the dynamic list used during KNN graph creation. Higher values lead to a more accurate graph, but slower indexing speed.
`index.knn.algo_param.m` | 16 | The number of bidirectional links that the plugin creates for each new element. Increasing and decreasing this value can have a large impact on memory consumption. Keep this value between 2-100.
`index.knn.space_type` | "l2" | The vector space used to calculate the distance between vectors. Currently, the KNN plugin supports the "l2" space (Euclidean distance) and "cosinesimil" space (Cosine Similarity). For more information on these spaces, please refer to the [NMSLIB documentation](https://github.com/nmslib/nmslib/blob/master/manual/spaces.md).


## Cluster settings

Setting | Default | Description
:--- | :--- | :---
`knn.algo_param.index_thread_qty` | 1 | The number of threads used for graph creation. Keeping this value low reduces the CPU impact of the KNN plugin, but also reduces indexing performance.
`knn.cache.item.expiry.enabled` | false | Whether to remove graphs that have not been accessed for a certain duration from memory.
`knn.cache.item.expiry.minutes` | 3h | If enabled, the idle time before removing a graph from memory.
`knn.circuit_breaker.unset.percentage` | 75.0 | The native memory usage threshold for the circuit breaker. Memory usage must be below this percentage of `knn.memory.circuit_breaker.limit` for `knn.circuit_breaker.triggered` to remain false.
`knn.circuit_breaker.triggered` | false | True when memory usage exceeds the `knn.circuit_breaker.unset.percentage` value.
`knn.memory.circuit_breaker.limit` | 60% | The native memory limit for graphs. At the default value, if a machine has 100 GB of memory and the JVM uses 32 GB, KNN uses 60% of the remaining 68 GB (40.8 GB). If memory usage exceeds this value, KNN removes the least recently used graphs.
`knn.memory.circuit_breaker.enabled` | true | Whether to enable the KNN memory circuit breaker.
`knn.plugin.enabled`| true | Enables or disables the KNN plugin.


## Statistics

KNN includes statistics that can give you a sense for how the plugin is performing:

```
GET _opendistro/_knn/stats
```

You can also filter by node and/or statistic:

```
GET /_opendistro/_knn/nodeId1,nodeId2/stats/statName1,statName2
```

Statistic |  Description
:--- | :---
`totalLoadTime` | The time in nanoseconds that KNN has taken to load graphs into the cache.
`evictionCount` | The number of graphs that have been evicted from the cache due to memory constraints or idle time.
`hitCount` | The number of cache hits. A cache hit occurs when a user queries a graph and it is already loaded into memory.
`cacheCapacityReached` | Whether `knn.memory.circuit_breaker.limit` has been reached.
`loadSuccessCount` | The number of times KNN successfully loaded a graph into the cache.
`graphMemoryUsage` | Current cache size (total size of all graphs in memory) in kilobytes.
`missCount` | The number of cache misses. A cache miss occurs when a user queries a graph and it has not yet been loaded into memory.
`loadExceptionCount` | The number of times an exception occurred when trying to load a graph into the cache.
