docs/upgrade/1-0-0.md, before:

---
layout: default
title: Upgrade to 1.0.0
parent: Upgrade
nav_order: 1
---

# Upgrade to 1.0.0

Open Distro for Elasticsearch 1.0.0 uses Elasticsearch 7.0.1, which has numerous breaking changes from 6.x.x. This page includes several important considerations when upgrading from Open Distro for Elasticsearch 0.x.x to 1.x.x.

---

#### Table of contents
1. TOC
{:toc}


---

## Security index

0.x.x versions of the `.opendistro_security` index do not automatically work with the new version. Instead, you must [back up your configuration](../../security-configuration/security-admin/#backup-and-restore), upgrade, and then use the `-migrate` option of the new `securityadmin.sh` to migrate your configuration YAML files to the new format and reinitialize the index:

```bash
# Example backup command
./securityadmin.sh -r -cd ~/my-backup-dir -icl -nhnv -cacert /etc/elasticsearch/root-ca.pem -cert /etc/elasticsearch/kirk.pem -key /etc/elasticsearch/kirk-key.pem
# Example migration command
./securityadmin.sh -migrate ~/my-backup-dir -nhnv -cacert /etc/elasticsearch/root-ca.pem -cert /etc/elasticsearch/kirk.pem -key /etc/elasticsearch/kirk-key.pem
```

If you use the Docker install, create copies of the YAML files outside of the container before *and* after the migration so that you can [pass them to the cluster](../../install/docker-security/).


## Security YAML format

1.x.x versions of the Security configuration YAML files use a slightly different file format than 0.x.x versions. The `-migrate` option of the new `securityadmin.sh` helps you move from the old format to the new format.


## Cluster and index names

Cluster and index names can no longer contain the `:` character.


## Default shard count

Indices now default to one shard rather than five.


## Shards per node limit

Clusters now default to a limit of 1,000 shards per data node, which you can change using the `cluster.max_shards_per_node` setting. Primary and replica shards both count towards this limit, but any shards that are part of a closed index do not.


## Search response hits

`hits.total`, returned as part of search responses, is now an object, not an integer. If you created monitors using the Alerting plugin, you probably need to update them to use the new response format (`hits.total.value` rather than `hits.total`). The old format:

```json
{
  "hits": {
    "total": 5
  }
}
```

The new format:

```json
{
  "hits": {
    "total": {
      "value": 5,
      "relation": "eq"
    }
  }
}
```

Possible values for `relation` are `eq` (`value` is accurate) and `gte` (`value` is a lower bound).

If you want to use the old behavior, add `rest_total_hits_as_int=true` as a parameter in the search request:

```json
GET _search?rest_total_hits_as_int=true
{
  "query": {
    "match": {
      "title": "wind"
    }
  }
}
```

To update your monitors:

1. Open Kibana.
1. Choose **Alerting**, **Monitors**, and a monitor.
1. Select a trigger and choose **Edit**.
1. Change any occurrences of `ctx.results[0].hits.total` to `ctx.results[0].hits.total.value` and choose **Update**.


## Mapping types

Like Elasticsearch 6.x, indices can only contain one mapping type, but that type must now be named `_doc`. As a result, certain requests that used to require a mapping type no longer do. An old call to the bulk API:

```json
POST _bulk
{ "index": { "_index" : "<index>", "_type" : "_doc", "_id" : "<id>" } }
{ "A JSON": "document" }
```

A new call:

```json
POST _bulk
{ "index": { "_index" : "<index>", "_id" : "<id>" } }
{ "A JSON": "document" }
```

Commit message:

Lots of Docker and Security changes

docs/upgrade/1-0-0.md, after:

---
layout: default
title: Upgrade to 1.0.0
parent: Upgrade
nav_order: 1
---

# Upgrade to 1.0.0

Open Distro for Elasticsearch 1.0.0 uses Elasticsearch 7.0.1, which has numerous breaking changes from 6.x.x. This page includes several important considerations when upgrading from Open Distro for Elasticsearch 0.x.x to 1.x.x.

---

#### Table of contents
1. TOC
{:toc}


---

## Security index

0.x.x versions of the `.opendistro_security` index do not automatically work with the new version. Instead, you must [back up your configuration](../../security-configuration/security-admin/#backup-and-restore), upgrade, and then use the `-migrate` option of the new `securityadmin.sh` to migrate your configuration YAML files to the new format and reinitialize the index:

```bash
# Example backup command
./securityadmin.sh -r -cd ~/my-backup-dir -icl -nhnv -cacert /etc/elasticsearch/root-ca.pem -cert /etc/elasticsearch/kirk.pem -key /etc/elasticsearch/kirk-key.pem
# Example migration command
./securityadmin.sh -migrate ~/my-backup-dir -nhnv -cacert /etc/elasticsearch/root-ca.pem -cert /etc/elasticsearch/kirk.pem -key /etc/elasticsearch/kirk-key.pem
```

If you use the Docker install, create copies of the YAML files outside of the container before *and* after the migration so that you can [pass them to the cluster](../../install/docker-security/).


## Security YAML format

1.x.x versions of the Security configuration YAML files use a slightly different file format than 0.x.x versions. The `-migrate` option of the new `securityadmin.sh` helps you [move from the old format to the new format](../../security-configuration/security-admin/#backup-restore-and-migrate).


## Discovery

Node discovery settings have changed in 1.x.x. Instead of `discovery.zen.ping.unicast.hosts` and `discovery.zen.hosts_provider`, use `discovery.seed_hosts` and `discovery.seed_providers`. For an example, see [Sample Docker Compose file](../../install/docker/#sample-docker-compose-file).


## Cluster and index names

Cluster and index names can no longer contain the `:` character.


## Default shard count

Indices now default to one shard rather than five.


## Shards per node limit

Clusters now default to a limit of 1,000 shards per data node, which you can change using the `cluster.max_shards_per_node` setting. Primary and replica shards both count towards this limit, but any shards that are part of a closed index do not.


## Search response hits

`hits.total`, returned as part of search responses, is now an object, not an integer. If you created monitors using the Alerting plugin, you probably need to update them to use the new response format (`hits.total.value` rather than `hits.total`). The old format:

```json
{
  "hits": {
    "total": 5
  }
}
```

The new format:

```json
{
  "hits": {
    "total": {
      "value": 5,
      "relation": "eq"
    }
  }
}
```

Possible values for `relation` are `eq` (`value` is accurate) and `gte` (`value` is a lower bound).

If you want to use the old behavior, add `rest_total_hits_as_int=true` as a parameter in the search request:

```json
GET _search?rest_total_hits_as_int=true
{
  "query": {
    "match": {
      "title": "wind"
    }
  }
}
```

To update your monitors:

1. Open Kibana.
1. Choose **Alerting**, **Monitors**, and a monitor.
1. Select a trigger and choose **Edit**.
1. Change any occurrences of `ctx.results[0].hits.total` to `ctx.results[0].hits.total.value` and choose **Update**.


## Mapping types

Like Elasticsearch 6.x, indices can only contain one mapping type, but that type must now be named `_doc`. As a result, certain requests that used to require a mapping type no longer do. An old call to the bulk API:

```json
POST _bulk
{ "index": { "_index" : "<index>", "_type" : "_doc", "_id" : "<id>" } }
{ "A JSON": "document" }
```

A new call:

```json
POST _bulk
{ "index": { "_index" : "<index>", "_id" : "<id>" } }
{ "A JSON": "document" }
```
