docs/troubleshoot/index.md, before:

---
layout: default
title: Troubleshoot
nav_order: 40
has_children: true
has_toc: false
---

# Troubleshoot

This section contains a list of issues and workarounds.


## Multi-tenancy issues in Kibana

If you're testing multiple users in Kibana and encounter unexpected changes in tenant, use Google Chrome in an Incognito window or Firefox in a Private window.


## Beats

If you encounter compatibility issues when attempting to connect Beats to Open Distro for Elasticsearch, make sure you're using the Apache 2.0 distribution of Beats, not the default distribution, which uses a proprietary license.

As of version 6.7, the default distribution of Beats includes a license check and fails to connect to the Apache 2.0 distribution of Elasticsearch.

Try this minimal output configuration for using Beats with the Security plugin:

```yml
output.elasticsearch:
  hosts: ["localhost:9200"]
  protocol: https
  username: "admin"
  password: "admin"
  ssl.certificate_authorities:
    - /full/path/to/root-ca.pem
  ssl.certificate: "/full/path/to/client.pem"
  ssl.key: "/full/path/to/client-key.pem"
```


## Logstash

If you're having trouble connecting Logstash to Open Distro for Elasticsearch, try this minimal output configuration, which works with the Security plugin:

```conf
output {
  elasticsearch {
    hosts => ["localhost:9200"]
    index => "logstash-index-test"
    user => "admin"
    password => "admin"
    ssl => true
    cacert => "/full/path/to/root-ca.pem"
  }
}
```


## Dependency error during upgrade

If you run `sudo yum upgrade` and receive a dependency error, Elasticsearch likely has a new minor version that the Open Distro for Elasticsearch plugins don't support yet. You can [install a specific, supported version of Elasticsearch](../install/plugins/#compatibility) to resolve the issue.

A temporary solution is to add the `--skip-broken` option to upgrade the rest of your system:

```bash
sudo yum upgrade --skip-broken
```


## Elasticsearch fails to start on Java 8 (RPM install)

If Elasticsearch fails to start and you're using Java 8, verify that you set the symbolic link (symlink) correctly in [step 5](../install/rpm) of the RPM installation. If Java is installed to a non-standard path, try looking for `tools.jar` using the following command:

```bash
ls /usr/lib/jvm/java-1.8.0-openjdk-*/lib/tools.jar
```

Then you can delete the old symlink and create a new one to the corrected path:

```bash
sudo rm /usr/share/elasticsearch/lib/tools.jar
sudo ln -s /usr/lib/jvm/java-1.8.0-openjdk-1.8.0.191.b12-0.amzn2.x86_64/lib/tools.jar /usr/share/elasticsearch/lib/
```

Commit message:

Lots of Docker and Security changes

docs/troubleshoot/index.md, after:

---
layout: default
title: Troubleshoot
nav_order: 40
has_children: true
has_toc: false
---

# Troubleshoot

This section contains a list of issues and workarounds.


## Java error during startup

You might see `[ERROR][c.a.o.s.s.t.OpenDistroSecuritySSLNettyTransport] [odfe-node1] SSL Problem Insufficient buffer remaining for AEAD cipher fragment (2). Needs to be more than tag size (16)` when starting Open Distro for Elasticsearch. This problem is a [known issue with Java](https://bugs.openjdk.java.net/browse/JDK-8221218) and doesn't affect the operation of the cluster.


## Multi-tenancy issues in Kibana

If you're testing multiple users in Kibana and encounter unexpected changes in tenant, use Google Chrome in an Incognito window or Firefox in a Private window.


## Beats

If you encounter compatibility issues when attempting to connect Beats to Open Distro for Elasticsearch, make sure you're using the Apache 2.0 distribution of Beats, not the default distribution, which uses a proprietary license.

As of version 6.7, the default distribution of Beats includes a license check and fails to connect to the Apache 2.0 distribution of Elasticsearch.

Try this minimal output configuration for using Beats with the Security plugin:

```yml
output.elasticsearch:
  hosts: ["localhost:9200"]
  protocol: https
  username: "admin"
  password: "admin"
  ssl.certificate_authorities:
    - /full/path/to/root-ca.pem
  ssl.certificate: "/full/path/to/client.pem"
  ssl.key: "/full/path/to/client-key.pem"
```


## Logstash

If you're having trouble connecting Logstash to Open Distro for Elasticsearch, try this minimal output configuration, which works with the Security plugin:

```conf
output {
  elasticsearch {
    hosts => ["localhost:9200"]
    index => "logstash-index-test"
    user => "admin"
    password => "admin"
    ssl => true
    cacert => "/full/path/to/root-ca.pem"
  }
}
```


## Dependency error during upgrade

If you run `sudo yum upgrade` and receive a dependency error, Elasticsearch likely has a new minor version that the Open Distro for Elasticsearch plugins don't support yet. You can [install a specific, supported version of Elasticsearch](../install/plugins/#compatibility) to resolve the issue.

A temporary solution is to add the `--skip-broken` option to upgrade the rest of your system:

```bash
sudo yum upgrade --skip-broken
```


## Elasticsearch fails to start on Java 8 (RPM install)

If Elasticsearch fails to start and you're using Java 8, verify that you set the symbolic link (symlink) correctly in [step 5](../install/rpm) of the RPM installation. If Java is installed to a non-standard path, try looking for `tools.jar` using the following command:

```bash
ls /usr/lib/jvm/java-1.8.0-openjdk-*/lib/tools.jar
```

Then you can delete the old symlink and create a new one to the corrected path:

```bash
sudo rm /usr/share/elasticsearch/lib/tools.jar
sudo ln -s /usr/lib/jvm/java-1.8.0-openjdk-1.8.0.191.b12-0.amzn2.x86_64/lib/tools.jar /usr/share/elasticsearch/lib/
```
