docs/install/docker-security.md, before:

---
layout: default
title: Docker Security Configuration
parent: Install and Configure
nav_order: 3
---

# Docker security configuration

Before deploying to a production environment, you should replace the demo security certificates with your own. With the RPM-based installation, you have direct access to the file system, but the Docker image requires modifying the Docker Compose file to include the replacement files.


#### Sample Docker Compose file

```yml
version: '3'
services:
  odfe-node1:
    image: amazon/opendistro-for-elasticsearch:0.7.1
    container_name: odfe-node1
    environment:
      - cluster.name=odfe-cluster
      - bootstrap.memory_lock=true # along with the memlock settings below, disables swapping
      - "ES_JAVA_OPTS=-Xms512m -Xmx512m" # minimum and maximum Java heap size, recommend setting both to 50% of system RAM
      - network.host=0.0.0.0 # required if not using the demo Security configuration
    ulimits:
      memlock:
        soft: -1
        hard: -1
    volumes:
      - odfe-data1:/usr/share/elasticsearch/data
      - ./root-ca.pem:/usr/share/elasticsearch/config/root-ca.pem
      - ./esnode.pem:/usr/share/elasticsearch/config/esnode.pem
      - ./esnode-key.pem:/usr/share/elasticsearch/config/esnode-key.pem
      - ./kirk.pem:/usr/share/elasticsearch/config/kirk.pem
      - ./kirk-key.pem:/usr/share/elasticsearch/config/kirk-key.pem
      - ./custom-elasticsearch.yml:/usr/share/elasticsearch/config/elasticsearch.yml
      - ./internal_users.yml:/usr/share/elasticsearch/plugins/opendistro_security/securityconfig/internal_users.yml
    ports:
      - 9200:9200
      - 9600:9600 # required for Performance Analyzer
    networks:
      - odfe-net
  odfe-node2:
    image: amazon/opendistro-for-elasticsearch:0.7.1
    container_name: odfe-node2
    environment:
      - cluster.name=odfe-cluster
      - bootstrap.memory_lock=true
      - "ES_JAVA_OPTS=-Xms512m -Xmx512m"
      - discovery.zen.ping.unicast.hosts=odfe-node1
      - network.host=0.0.0.0
    ulimits:
      memlock:
        soft: -1
        hard: -1
    volumes:
      - odfe-data2:/usr/share/elasticsearch/data
      - ./root-ca.pem:/usr/share/elasticsearch/config/root-ca.pem
      - ./esnode.pem:/usr/share/elasticsearch/config/esnode.pem
      - ./esnode-key.pem:/usr/share/elasticsearch/config/esnode-key.pem
      - ./kirk.pem:/usr/share/elasticsearch/config/kirk.pem
      - ./kirk-key.pem:/usr/share/elasticsearch/config/kirk-key.pem
      - ./custom-elasticsearch.yml:/usr/share/elasticsearch/config/elasticsearch.yml
      - ./internal_users.yml:/usr/share/elasticsearch/plugins/opendistro_security/securityconfig/internal_users.yml
    networks:
      - odfe-net
  kibana:
    image: amazon/opendistro-for-elasticsearch-kibana:0.7.1
    container_name: odfe-kibana
    ports:
      - 5601:5601
    expose:
      - "5601"
    environment:
      ELASTICSEARCH_URL: https://odfe-node1:9200
    volumes:
      - ./custom-kibana.yml:/usr/share/kibana/config/kibana.yml
    networks:
      - odfe-net

volumes:
  odfe-data1:
  odfe-data2:

networks:
  odfe-net:
```

Then make your changes to `elasticsearch.yml`. For a full list of settings, see [Security](../../security). This example adds (extremely) verbose audit logging:

```yml
opendistro_security.ssl.transport.pemcert_filepath: esnode.pem
opendistro_security.ssl.transport.pemkey_filepath: esnode-key.pem
opendistro_security.ssl.transport.pemtrustedcas_filepath: root-ca.pem
opendistro_security.ssl.transport.enforce_hostname_verification: false
opendistro_security.ssl.http.enabled: true
opendistro_security.ssl.http.pemcert_filepath: esnode.pem
opendistro_security.ssl.http.pemkey_filepath: esnode-key.pem
opendistro_security.ssl.http.pemtrustedcas_filepath: root-ca.pem
opendistro_security.allow_unsafe_democertificates: true
opendistro_security.allow_default_init_securityindex: true
opendistro_security.authcz.admin_dn:
  - CN=kirk,OU=client,O=client,L=test, C=de

opendistro_security.audit.type: internal_elasticsearch
opendistro_security.enable_snapshot_restore_privilege: true
opendistro_security.check_snapshot_restore_write_privileges: true
opendistro_security.restapi.roles_enabled: ["all_access", "security_rest_api_access"]
cluster.routing.allocation.disk.threshold_enabled: false
opendistro_security.audit.config.disabled_rest_categories: NONE
opendistro_security.audit.config.disabled_transport_categories: NONE
```

To start the cluster, run `docker-compose up`.

If you encounter any `File /usr/share/elasticsearch/config/elasticsearch.yml has insecure file permissions (should be 0600)` messages, you can use `chmod` to set file permissions before running `docker-compose up`. Docker Compose passes files to the container as-is.
{: .note }


## Change passwords for read-only users

After the cluster starts, change the passwords for the [read-only user accounts](../../security/api/#read-only-and-hidden-resources) (`admin` and `kibanaserver`). Run `docker ps` to find the `odfe-node1` container ID. Then run:

```
$ docker exec <container-id> /bin/sh /usr/share/elasticsearch/plugins/opendistro_security/tools/hash.sh -p newpassword
```

The hash script returns a hashed password (e.g. `$2y$12$SFNvhLHf7MPCpRCq00o/BuU8GMdcD.7BymhT80YHNISBHsfJwhTou`), which you can then copy and paste into `internal_users.yml`. Repeat the process as necessary for all read-only users. Don't worry about the other user accounts; you can change (or delete) them in Kibana.

When you're satisfied, modify `custom-kibana.yml` to include the new `kibanaserver` password. Then restart the cluster using `docker-compose down -v` and `docker-compose up`. The `-v` is critical in this case.

`internal_users.yml` looks like this:

```yml
# New password applied
admin:
  readonly: true
  hash: $2y$12$SFNvhLHf7MPCpRCq00o/BuU8GMdcD.7BymhT80YHNISBHsfJwhTou
  roles:
    - admin
  attributes:
    #no dots allowed in attribute names
    attribute1: value1
    attribute2: value2
    attribute3: value3

# Still using default password: logstash
logstash:
  hash: $2a$12$u1ShR4l4uBS3Uv59Pa2y5.1uQuZBrZtmNfqB3iM/.jL0XoV9sghS2
  roles:
    - logstash

# New password applied
kibanaserver:
  readonly: true
  hash: $2a$12$4AcgAt3xwOWadA5s5blL6ev39OXDNhmOesEoo33eZtrq2N0YrU3H.

# Still using default password: kibanaro
kibanaro:
  hash: $2a$12$JJSXNfTowz7Uu5ttXfeYpeYE0arACvcwlPBStB1F.MI7f0U9Z4DGC
  roles:
    - kibanauser
    - readall

# Still using default password: readall
readall:
  hash: $2a$12$ae4ycwzwvLtZxwZ82RmiEunBbIPiAmGZduBAjKN0TXdwQFtCwARz2
  #password is: readall
  roles:
    - readall

# Still using default password: snapshotrestore
snapshotrestore:
  hash: $2y$12$DpwmetHKwgYnorbgdvORCenv4NAK8cPUg8AI6pxLCuWf/ALc0.v7W
  roles:
    - snapshotrestore
```


## Next steps

After the cluster starts, verify the new password:

```bash
curl -XGET https://localhost:9200 -u admin:admin -k
Unauthorized

curl -XGET https://localhost:9200 -u admin:newpassword -k
{
  ...
  "tagline" : "You Know, for Search"
}
```

Then you can open Kibana at [http://localhost:5601](http://localhost:5601), sign in, and perform additional user management in the **Security** panel.

You can use this same override process to specify new [authentication settings](../../security/configuration) in `/usr/share/elasticsearch/plugins/opendistro_security/securityconfig/config.yml`.

Commit message:

Clarifies two issues
- https://github.com/opendistro-for-elasticsearch/community/issues/38
- https://github.com/opendistro/for-elasticsearch-docs/issues/39

docs/install/docker-security.md, after:

---
layout: default
title: Docker Security Configuration
parent: Install and Configure
nav_order: 3
---

# Docker security configuration

Before deploying to a production environment, you should replace the demo security certificates with your own. With the RPM-based installation, you have direct access to the file system, but the Docker image requires modifying the Docker Compose file to include the replacement files.


#### Sample Docker Compose file

```yml
version: '3'
services:
  odfe-node1:
    image: amazon/opendistro-for-elasticsearch:0.7.1
    container_name: odfe-node1
    environment:
      - cluster.name=odfe-cluster
      - bootstrap.memory_lock=true # along with the memlock settings below, disables swapping
      - "ES_JAVA_OPTS=-Xms512m -Xmx512m" # minimum and maximum Java heap size, recommend setting both to 50% of system RAM
      - network.host=0.0.0.0 # required if not using the demo Security configuration
    ulimits:
      memlock:
        soft: -1
        hard: -1
    volumes:
      - odfe-data1:/usr/share/elasticsearch/data
      - ./root-ca.pem:/usr/share/elasticsearch/config/root-ca.pem
      - ./esnode.pem:/usr/share/elasticsearch/config/esnode.pem
      - ./esnode-key.pem:/usr/share/elasticsearch/config/esnode-key.pem
      - ./kirk.pem:/usr/share/elasticsearch/config/kirk.pem
      - ./kirk-key.pem:/usr/share/elasticsearch/config/kirk-key.pem
      - ./custom-elasticsearch.yml:/usr/share/elasticsearch/config/elasticsearch.yml
      - ./internal_users.yml:/usr/share/elasticsearch/plugins/opendistro_security/securityconfig/internal_users.yml
    ports:
      - 9200:9200
      - 9600:9600 # required for Performance Analyzer
    networks:
      - odfe-net
  odfe-node2:
    image: amazon/opendistro-for-elasticsearch:0.7.1
    container_name: odfe-node2
    environment:
      - cluster.name=odfe-cluster
      - bootstrap.memory_lock=true
      - "ES_JAVA_OPTS=-Xms512m -Xmx512m"
      - discovery.zen.ping.unicast.hosts=odfe-node1
      - network.host=0.0.0.0
    ulimits:
      memlock:
        soft: -1
        hard: -1
    volumes:
      - odfe-data2:/usr/share/elasticsearch/data
      - ./root-ca.pem:/usr/share/elasticsearch/config/root-ca.pem
      - ./esnode.pem:/usr/share/elasticsearch/config/esnode.pem
      - ./esnode-key.pem:/usr/share/elasticsearch/config/esnode-key.pem
      - ./kirk.pem:/usr/share/elasticsearch/config/kirk.pem
      - ./kirk-key.pem:/usr/share/elasticsearch/config/kirk-key.pem
      - ./custom-elasticsearch.yml:/usr/share/elasticsearch/config/elasticsearch.yml
      - ./internal_users.yml:/usr/share/elasticsearch/plugins/opendistro_security/securityconfig/internal_users.yml
    networks:
      - odfe-net
  kibana:
    image: amazon/opendistro-for-elasticsearch-kibana:0.7.1
    container_name: odfe-kibana
    ports:
      - 5601:5601
    expose:
      - "5601"
    environment:
      ELASTICSEARCH_URL: https://odfe-node1:9200
    volumes:
      - ./custom-kibana.yml:/usr/share/kibana/config/kibana.yml
    networks:
      - odfe-net

volumes:
  odfe-data1:
  odfe-data2:

networks:
  odfe-net:
```

Then make your changes to `elasticsearch.yml`. For a full list of settings, see [Security](../../security). This example adds (extremely) verbose audit logging:

```yml
opendistro_security.ssl.transport.pemcert_filepath: esnode.pem
opendistro_security.ssl.transport.pemkey_filepath: esnode-key.pem
opendistro_security.ssl.transport.pemtrustedcas_filepath: root-ca.pem
opendistro_security.ssl.transport.enforce_hostname_verification: false
opendistro_security.ssl.http.enabled: true
opendistro_security.ssl.http.pemcert_filepath: esnode.pem
opendistro_security.ssl.http.pemkey_filepath: esnode-key.pem
opendistro_security.ssl.http.pemtrustedcas_filepath: root-ca.pem
opendistro_security.allow_unsafe_democertificates: true
opendistro_security.allow_default_init_securityindex: true
opendistro_security.authcz.admin_dn:
  - CN=kirk,OU=client,O=client,L=test, C=de

opendistro_security.audit.type: internal_elasticsearch
opendistro_security.enable_snapshot_restore_privilege: true
opendistro_security.check_snapshot_restore_write_privileges: true
opendistro_security.restapi.roles_enabled: ["all_access", "security_rest_api_access"]
cluster.routing.allocation.disk.threshold_enabled: false
opendistro_security.audit.config.disabled_rest_categories: NONE
opendistro_security.audit.config.disabled_transport_categories: NONE
```

To start the cluster, run `docker-compose up`.

If you encounter any `File /usr/share/elasticsearch/config/elasticsearch.yml has insecure file permissions (should be 0600)` messages, you can use `chmod` to set file permissions before running `docker-compose up`. Docker Compose passes files to the container as-is.
{: .note }


## Change passwords for read-only users

After the cluster starts, change the passwords for the [read-only user accounts](../../security/api/#read-only-and-hidden-resources): `admin` and `kibanaserver`.

- The `admin` user has full privileges on the cluster.
- `kibanaserver` user has certain permissions to the `.kibana` index that let it perform management tasks like setting index patterns and retrieving visualizations. This user, or one just like it, is required for Kibana to work properly with the Security plugin. We recommend just using `kibanaserver`.

  Regardless of the authentication method that you choose for other users (e.g. Open ID Connect), the Kibana server user always passes its credentials to Elasticsearch using HTTP basic authentication headers, as set in `kibana.yml`.
  {: .note }

To generate new passwords, run `docker ps` to find the `odfe-node1` container ID. Then run:

```
$ docker exec <container-id> /bin/sh /usr/share/elasticsearch/plugins/opendistro_security/tools/hash.sh -p newpassword
```

If you encounter a permissions error, run `docker exec <container-id> chmod +x /usr/share/elasticsearch/plugins/opendistro_security/tools/hash.sh`
{: .tip }

The hash script returns a hashed password (e.g. `$2y$12$SFNvhLHf7MPCpRCq00o/BuU8GMdcD.7BymhT80YHNISBHsfJwhTou`), which you can then copy and paste into `internal_users.yml`. Repeat the process as necessary for all read-only users. Don't worry about the other user accounts; you can change (or delete) them in Kibana.

When you're satisfied, modify `elasticsearch.password` in `custom-kibana.yml` to include the new `kibanaserver` password. Then restart the cluster using `docker-compose down -v` and `docker-compose up`. The `-v` is critical in this case.

`internal_users.yml` looks like this:

```yml
# New password applied
admin:
  readonly: true
  hash: $2y$12$SFNvhLHf7MPCpRCq00o/BuU8GMdcD.7BymhT80YHNISBHsfJwhTou
  roles:
    - admin
  attributes:
    #no dots allowed in attribute names
    attribute1: value1
    attribute2: value2
    attribute3: value3

# Still using default password: logstash
logstash:
  hash: $2a$12$u1ShR4l4uBS3Uv59Pa2y5.1uQuZBrZtmNfqB3iM/.jL0XoV9sghS2
  roles:
    - logstash

# New password applied
kibanaserver:
  readonly: true
  hash: $2a$12$4AcgAt3xwOWadA5s5blL6ev39OXDNhmOesEoo33eZtrq2N0YrU3H.

# Still using default password: kibanaro
kibanaro:
  hash: $2a$12$JJSXNfTowz7Uu5ttXfeYpeYE0arACvcwlPBStB1F.MI7f0U9Z4DGC
  roles:
    - kibanauser
    - readall

# Still using default password: readall
readall:
  hash: $2a$12$ae4ycwzwvLtZxwZ82RmiEunBbIPiAmGZduBAjKN0TXdwQFtCwARz2
  #password is: readall
  roles:
    - readall

# Still using default password: snapshotrestore
snapshotrestore:
  hash: $2y$12$DpwmetHKwgYnorbgdvORCenv4NAK8cPUg8AI6pxLCuWf/ALc0.v7W
  roles:
    - snapshotrestore
```


## Next steps

After the cluster starts, verify the new password:

```bash
curl -XGET https://localhost:9200 -u admin:admin -k
Unauthorized

curl -XGET https://localhost:9200 -u admin:newpassword -k
{
  ...
  "tagline" : "You Know, for Search"
}
```

Then you can open Kibana at [http://localhost:5601](http://localhost:5601), sign in, and perform additional user management in the **Security** panel.

You can use this same override process to specify new [authentication settings](../../security/configuration) in `/usr/share/elasticsearch/plugins/opendistro_security/securityconfig/config.yml`.
