docs/install/rpm.md, before:

---
layout: default
title: RPM
parent: Install and Configure
nav_order: 2
---

# RPM package

Installing and running Open Distro from an RPM package is a more manual process than the Docker image. We recommend CentOS 7 and Amazon Linux 2, but any RPM-based distribution that uses [systemd](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Systemd) should work. These steps assume you're using CentOS 7.

1. Create the repository file:

   ```bash
   sudo curl https://d3g5vo6xdbdb9a.cloudfront.net/yum/opendistroforelasticsearch-artifacts.repo -o /etc/yum.repos.d/opendistroforelasticsearch-artifacts.repo
   ```

1. Open Distro for Elasticseach requires the full Java Development Kit (JDK), not just the Java Runtime Environment (JRE). If you don't have the JDK installed, install either version 8 or version 11:

   ```bash
   # Java 11
   sudo yum install java-11-openjdk-devel
   # Java 8
   sudo yum install java-1.8.0-openjdk-devel
   ```

   If you're using Amazon Linux 2, you might need to use Java 8.

1. Install wget and unzip:

   ```bash
   sudo yum install wget unzip
   ```

1. List all available Open Distro versions:

   ```bash
   sudo yum list opendistroforelasticsearch --showduplicates
   ```

1. Choose the version you'd like and install it:

   ```bash
   sudo yum install opendistroforelasticsearch-{{site.odfe_version}}
   ```

   This command automatically chooses the appropriate architecture (x64 or ARM64) depending on the system you're using.

1. **If you installed Java 8**, run the following command:

   ```bash
   sudo ln -s /usr/lib/jvm/java-1.8.0/lib/tools.jar /usr/share/elasticsearch/lib/
   ```

1. To start Open Distro:

   ```bash
   sudo systemctl start elasticsearch.service
   ```

1. Send requests to the server to verify that Elasticsearch is up and running:

   ```bash
   curl -XGET https://localhost:9200 -u 'admin:admin' --insecure
   curl -XGET https://localhost:9200/_cat/nodes?v -u 'admin:admin' --insecure
   curl -XGET https://localhost:9200/_cat/plugins?v -u 'admin:admin' --insecure
   ```

1. For instructions on installing and running Kibana, see [Kibana](../../kibana).

1. To check the status of the service:

   ```bash
   systemctl status elasticsearch.service
   ```

   You might notice some errors if you are using Java 8. If the service is still `active (running)`, you can safely ignore them:

   ```
   elasticsearch[3969]: java.security.policy: error adding Entry:
   elasticsearch[3969]: java.net.MalformedURLException: unknown protocol: jrt
   elasticsearch[3969]: java.security.policy: error adding Entry:
   elasticsearch[3969]: java.net.MalformedURLException: unknown protocol: jrt
   ```

1. To stop Open Distro:

   ```bash
   sudo systemctl stop elasticsearch.service
   ```


## Configuration

To run Open Distro when the system starts:

```bash
sudo /bin/systemctl daemon-reload
sudo /bin/systemctl enable elasticsearch.service
```

You can also modify the values in `/etc/sysconfig/elasticsearch` (`JAVA_HOME`, most notably), `/etc/elasticsearch/elasticsearch.yml`, and `/etc/elasticsearch/jvm.options` (to set the heap size, most notably). To learn more, see [Elasticsearch configuration](../../elasticsearch/configuration/) and [Important Settings](../docker#important-settings) on the Docker page.


### (Optional) Set up Performance Analyzer

By default, Performance Analyzer's endpoints are not accessible from outside the host machine.

To edit this behavior, modify the plugin configuration. First navigate to `ES_HOME`, which is `/usr/share/elasticsearch` for a standard installation.

```bash
cd $ES_HOME # navigate to the Elasticsearch home directory
cd plugins/opendistro_performance_analyzer/pa_config/
vi performance-analyzer.properties
```

Uncomment the line `#webservice-bind-host` and set it to `0.0.0.0`:

```
# ======================== Elasticsearch performance analyzer plugin config =========================

# NOTE: this is an example for Linux. Please modify the config accordingly if you are using it under other OS.

# WebService bind host; default to all interfaces
webservice-bind-host = 0.0.0.0

# Metrics data location
metrics-location = /dev/shm/performanceanalyzer/

# Metrics deletion interval (minutes) for metrics data.
# Interval should be between 1 to 60.
metrics-deletion-interval = 1

# If set to true, the system cleans up the files behind it. So at any point, we should expect only 2
# metrics-db-file-prefix-path files. If set to false, no files are cleaned up. This can be useful, if you are archiving
# the files and wouldn't like for them to be cleaned up.
cleanup-metrics-db-files = true

# WebService exposed by App's port
webservice-listener-port = 9600

# Metric DB File Prefix Path location
metrics-db-file-prefix-path = /tmp/metricsdb_

https-enabled = false

#Setup the correct path for certificates
certificate-file-path = specify_path

private-key-file-path = specify_path

# Plugin Stats Metadata file name, expected to be in the same location
plugin-stats-metadata = plugin-stats-metadata

# Agent Stats Metadata file name, expected to be in the same location
agent-stats-metadata = agent-stats-metadata
```

Finally, restart the Elasticsearch service. After the restart, Performance Analyzer is accessible from outside the machine:

```bash
sudo systemctl restart elasticsearch.service
```


## Where are the files?

The RPM package installs files to the following locations:

File type | Location
:--- | :---
Elasticsearch home, management scripts, and plugins | `/usr/share/elasticsearch/`
Configuration files | `/etc/elasticsearch`
Environment variables | `/etc/sysconfig/elasticsearch`
Logs | `/var/log/elasticsearch`
Shard data | `/var/lib/elasticsearch`

Commit message:

Statements and changes that emphasize deprecation (#535)
* “fix#840-ODFE-deprecate”

Signed-off-by: cwillum <cwmmoore@amazon.com>

* “fix#840-ODFE-deprecate”

Signed-off-by: cwillum <cwmmoore@amazon.com>

Signed-off-by: cwillum <cwmmoore@amazon.com>

docs/install/rpm.md, after:

---
layout: default
title: RPM
parent: Install and Configure
nav_order: 2
---

# RPM package

Installing and running Open Distro from an RPM package is a more manual process than the Docker image. We recommend CentOS 7 and Amazon Linux 2, but any RPM-based distribution that uses [systemd](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Systemd) should work. These steps assume you're using CentOS 7.

Open Distro RPM release for 1.13.3 is not available due to the absence of upstream artifacts related to the build. If you are using RPM package management with a previous version of Open Distro and concerned about Apache Log4j security vulnerabilities, please see the [Apache Log4j](https://logging.apache.org/log4j/2.x/) website to learn about steps you can take to mitigate those vulnerabilities.<br>We also recommend migrating to OpenSearch, which is protected against this and other vulnerabilities, and provides a suite of robust security features along with improved search functionality. See [About the process](https://opensearch.org/docs/latest/upgrade-to/index/) to learn more about migrating to OpenSearch.
{: .warning}

1. Create the repository file:

   ```bash
   sudo curl https://d3g5vo6xdbdb9a.cloudfront.net/yum/opendistroforelasticsearch-artifacts.repo -o /etc/yum.repos.d/opendistroforelasticsearch-artifacts.repo
   ```

1. Open Distro for Elasticseach requires the full Java Development Kit (JDK), not just the Java Runtime Environment (JRE). If you don't have the JDK installed, install either version 8 or version 11:

   ```bash
   # Java 11
   sudo yum install java-11-openjdk-devel
   # Java 8
   sudo yum install java-1.8.0-openjdk-devel
   ```

   If you're using Amazon Linux 2, you might need to use Java 8.

1. Install wget and unzip:

   ```bash
   sudo yum install wget unzip
   ```

1. List all available Open Distro versions:

   ```bash
   sudo yum list opendistroforelasticsearch --showduplicates
   ```

1. Choose the version you'd like to install: (See [note](#rpm-package) above.)

   ```bash
   sudo yum install opendistroforelasticsearch-1.13.x.
   ```

   This command automatically chooses the appropriate architecture (x64 or ARM64) depending on the system you're using.

1. **If you installed Java 8**, run the following command:

   ```bash
   sudo ln -s /usr/lib/jvm/java-1.8.0/lib/tools.jar /usr/share/elasticsearch/lib/
   ```

1. To start Open Distro:

   ```bash
   sudo systemctl start elasticsearch.service
   ```

1. Send requests to the server to verify that Elasticsearch is up and running:

   ```bash
   curl -XGET https://localhost:9200 -u 'admin:admin' --insecure
   curl -XGET https://localhost:9200/_cat/nodes?v -u 'admin:admin' --insecure
   curl -XGET https://localhost:9200/_cat/plugins?v -u 'admin:admin' --insecure
   ```

1. For instructions on installing and running Kibana, see [Kibana](../../kibana).

1. To check the status of the service:

   ```bash
   systemctl status elasticsearch.service
   ```

   You might notice some errors if you are using Java 8. If the service is still `active (running)`, you can safely ignore them:

   ```
   elasticsearch[3969]: java.security.policy: error adding Entry:
   elasticsearch[3969]: java.net.MalformedURLException: unknown protocol: jrt
   elasticsearch[3969]: java.security.policy: error adding Entry:
   elasticsearch[3969]: java.net.MalformedURLException: unknown protocol: jrt
   ```

1. To stop Open Distro:

   ```bash
   sudo systemctl stop elasticsearch.service
   ```


## Configuration

To run Open Distro when the system starts:

```bash
sudo /bin/systemctl daemon-reload
sudo /bin/systemctl enable elasticsearch.service
```

You can also modify the values in `/etc/sysconfig/elasticsearch` (`JAVA_HOME`, most notably), `/etc/elasticsearch/elasticsearch.yml`, and `/etc/elasticsearch/jvm.options` (to set the heap size, most notably). To learn more, see [Elasticsearch configuration](../../elasticsearch/configuration/) and [Important Settings](../docker#important-settings) on the Docker page.


### (Optional) Set up Performance Analyzer

By default, Performance Analyzer's endpoints are not accessible from outside the host machine.

To edit this behavior, modify the plugin configuration. First navigate to `ES_HOME`, which is `/usr/share/elasticsearch` for a standard installation.

```bash
cd $ES_HOME # navigate to the Elasticsearch home directory
cd plugins/opendistro_performance_analyzer/pa_config/
vi performance-analyzer.properties
```

Uncomment the line `#webservice-bind-host` and set it to `0.0.0.0`:

```
# ======================== Elasticsearch performance analyzer plugin config =========================

# NOTE: this is an example for Linux. Please modify the config accordingly if you are using it under other OS.

# WebService bind host; default to all interfaces
webservice-bind-host = 0.0.0.0

# Metrics data location
metrics-location = /dev/shm/performanceanalyzer/

# Metrics deletion interval (minutes) for metrics data.
# Interval should be between 1 to 60.
metrics-deletion-interval = 1

# If set to true, the system cleans up the files behind it. So at any point, we should expect only 2
# metrics-db-file-prefix-path files. If set to false, no files are cleaned up. This can be useful, if you are archiving
# the files and wouldn't like for them to be cleaned up.
cleanup-metrics-db-files = true

# WebService exposed by App's port
webservice-listener-port = 9600

# Metric DB File Prefix Path location
metrics-db-file-prefix-path = /tmp/metricsdb_

https-enabled = false

#Setup the correct path for certificates
certificate-file-path = specify_path

private-key-file-path = specify_path

# Plugin Stats Metadata file name, expected to be in the same location
plugin-stats-metadata = plugin-stats-metadata

# Agent Stats Metadata file name, expected to be in the same location
agent-stats-metadata = agent-stats-metadata
```

Finally, restart the Elasticsearch service. After the restart, Performance Analyzer is accessible from outside the machine:

```bash
sudo systemctl restart elasticsearch.service
```


## Where are the files?

The RPM package installs files to the following locations:

File type | Location
:--- | :---
Elasticsearch home, management scripts, and plugins | `/usr/share/elasticsearch/`
Configuration files | `/etc/elasticsearch`
Environment variables | `/etc/sysconfig/elasticsearch`
Logs | `/var/log/elasticsearch`
Shard data | `/var/lib/elasticsearch`
