docs/install/tar.md, before:

---
layout: default
title: Tarball
parent: Install and Configure
nav_order: 5
---

# Tarball

The tarball installation works on Linux systems and provides a self-contained directory with everything you need to run Open Distro, including an integrated Java Development Kit (JDK). The tarball is a good option for testing and development, but we recommend Docker or a package manager for production deployments.

The tarball supports CentOS 7, Amazon Linux 2, Ubuntu 18.04, and most other Linux distributions. If you have your own Java installation and you set `JAVA_HOME` in the terminal, macOS works as well.

1. Download the tarball:

   ```bash
   # x64
   curl https://d3g5vo6xdbdb9a.cloudfront.net/tarball/opendistro-elasticsearch/opendistroforelasticsearch-{{site.odfe_version}}-linux-x64.tar.gz -o opendistroforelasticsearch-{{site.odfe_version}}-linux-x64.tar.gz
   # ARM64
   curl https://d3g5vo6xdbdb9a.cloudfront.net/tarball/opendistro-elasticsearch/opendistroforelasticsearch-{{site.odfe_version}}-linux-arm64.tar.gz -o opendistroforelasticsearch-{{site.odfe_version}}-linux-arm64.tar.gz
   ```

1. Download the checksum:

   ```bash
   # x86
   curl https://d3g5vo6xdbdb9a.cloudfront.net/tarball/opendistro-elasticsearch/opendistroforelasticsearch-{{site.odfe_version}}-linux-x64.tar.gz.sha512 -o opendistroforelasticsearch-{{site.odfe_version}}-linux-x64.tar.gz.sha512
   # ARM64
   curl https://d3g5vo6xdbdb9a.cloudfront.net/tarball/opendistro-elasticsearch/opendistroforelasticsearch-{{site.odfe_version}}-linux-arm64.tar.gz.sha512 -o opendistroforelasticsearch-{{site.odfe_version}}-linux-arm64.tar.gz.sha512
   ```

1. Verify the tarball against the checksum:


   ```bash
   # x64
   shasum -a 512 -c opendistroforelasticsearch-{{site.odfe_version}}-linux-x64.tar.gz.sha512
   # ARM64
   shasum -a 512 -c opendistroforelasticsearch-{{site.odfe_version}}-linux-arm64.tar.gz.sha512
   ```

   On CentOS, you might not have `shasum`. Install this package:

   ```bash
   sudo yum install perl-Digest-SHA
   ```

   Due to a [known issue](https://github.com/opendistro-for-elasticsearch/opendistro-build/issues/81) with the checksum, this step might fail. You can still proceed with the installation.

1. Extract the TAR file to a directory and change to that directory:

   ```bash
   # x64
   tar -zxf opendistroforelasticsearch-{{site.odfe_version}}-linux-x64.tar.gz
   cd opendistroforelasticsearch-{{site.odfe_version}}
   # ARM64
   tar -zxf opendistroforelasticsearch-{{site.odfe_version}}-linux-arm64.tar.gz
   cd opendistroforelasticsearch-{{site.odfe_version}}
   ```

1. Run Open Distro:

   ```bash
   ./opendistro-tar-install.sh
   ```

1. Open a second terminal session, and send requests to the server to verify that Open Distro is up and running:

   ```bash
   curl -XGET https://localhost:9200 -u 'admin:admin' --insecure
   curl -XGET https://localhost:9200/_cat/plugins?v -u 'admin:admin' --insecure
   ```


## Configuration

You can modify `config/elasticsearch.yml` or specify environment variables as arguments using `-E`:

```bash
./opendistro-tar-install.sh -Ecluster.name=odfe-cluster -Enode.name=odfe-node1 -Ehttp.host=0.0.0.0 -Ediscovery.type=single-node
```

For other settings, see [Important settings](../docker/#important-settings).


### (Optional) Set up Performance Analyzer

In a tarball installation, Performance Analyzer collects data when it is enabled. But in order to read that data using the REST API on port 9600, you must first manually launch the associated reader agent process:

1. Make Performance Analyzer accessible outside of the host machine

   ```bash
   cd /usr/share/elasticsearch # navigate to the Elasticsearch home directory
   cd plugins/opendistro_performance_analyzer/pa_config/
   vi performance-analyzer.properties
   ```

   Uncomment the line `#webservice-bind-host` and set it to `0.0.0.0`:

   ```
   # ======================== Elasticsearch performance analyzer plugin config =========================

   # NOTE: this is an example for Linux. Please modify the config accordingly if you are using it under other OS.

   # WebService bind host; default to all interfaces
   webservice-bind-host = 0.0.0.0

   # Metrics data location
   metrics-location = /dev/shm/performanceanalyzer/

   # Metrics deletion interval (minutes) for metrics data.
   # Interval should be between 1 to 60.
   metrics-deletion-interval = 1

   # If set to true, the system cleans up the files behind it. So at any point, we should expect only 2
   # metrics-db-file-prefix-path files. If set to false, no files are cleaned up. This can be useful, if you are archiving
   # the files and wouldn't like for them to be cleaned up.
   cleanup-metrics-db-files = true

   # WebService exposed by App's port
   webservice-listener-port = 9600

   # Metric DB File Prefix Path location
   metrics-db-file-prefix-path = /tmp/metricsdb_

   https-enabled = false

   #Setup the correct path for certificates
   certificate-file-path = specify_path

   private-key-file-path = specify_path

   # Plugin Stats Metadata file name, expected to be in the same location
   plugin-stats-metadata = plugin-stats-metadata

   # Agent Stats Metadata file name, expected to be in the same location
   agent-stats-metadata = agent-stats-metadata
   ```

1. Make the CLI executable:

   ```bash
   sudo chmod +x ./bin/performance-analyzer-agent-cli
   ```

1. Launch the agent CLI:

   ```bash
   ES_HOME="$PWD" ./bin/performance-analyzer-agent-cli
   ```

1. In a separate window, enable the Performance Analyzer plugin:

   ```bash
   curl -XPOST localhost:9200/_opendistro/_performanceanalyzer/cluster/config -H 'Content-Type: application/json' -d '{"enabled": true}'
   ```

   If you receive the `curl: (52) Empty reply from server` error, you are likely protecting your cluster with the security plugin and you need to provide credentials. Modify the following command to use your username and password:

   ```bash
   curl -XPOST https://localhost:9200/_opendistro/_performanceanalyzer/cluster/config -H 'Content-Type: application/json' -d '{"enabled": true}' -u 'admin:admin' -k
   ```

1. Finally, enable the Root Cause Analyzer (RCA) framework

   ```bash
   curl -XPOST localhost:9200/_opendistro/_performanceanalyzer/rca/cluster/config -H 'Content-Type: application/json' -d '{"enabled": true}'
   ```

   Similar to step 4, if you run into `curl: (52) Empty reply from server`, run the command below to enable RCA

   ```bash
   curl -XPOST https://localhost:9200/_opendistro/_performanceanalyzer/rca/cluster/config -H 'Content-Type: application/json' -d '{"enabled": true}' -u 'admin:admin' -k
   ```


### (Optional) Removing Performance Analyzer

See [Clean up Performance Analyzer files](../plugins/#optional-clean-up-performance-analyzer-files).

Commit message:

Statements and changes that emphasize deprecation (#535)
* “fix#840-ODFE-deprecate”

Signed-off-by: cwillum <cwmmoore@amazon.com>

* “fix#840-ODFE-deprecate”

Signed-off-by: cwillum <cwmmoore@amazon.com>

Signed-off-by: cwillum <cwmmoore@amazon.com>

docs/install/tar.md, after:

---
layout: default
title: Tarball
parent: Install and Configure
nav_order: 5
---

# Tarball

The tarball installation works on Linux systems and provides a self-contained directory with everything you need to run Open Distro, including an integrated Java Development Kit (JDK). The tarball is a good option for testing and development, but we recommend Docker or a package manager for production deployments.

The tarball supports CentOS 7, Amazon Linux 2, Ubuntu 18.04, and most other Linux distributions. If you have your own Java installation and you set `JAVA_HOME` in the terminal, macOS works as well.

1. Download the tarball:

Open Distro is no longer being developed and exists only as an archive. Please visit [OpenSearch documentation](https://opensearch.org/docs/latest) to get started with OpenSearch.
{: .warning}

1. Download the checksum:

(No longer available.)

1. Verify the tarball against the checksum:


   ```bash
   # x64
   shasum -a 512 -c opendistroforelasticsearch-{{site.odfe_version}}-linux-x64.tar.gz.sha512
   # ARM64
   shasum -a 512 -c opendistroforelasticsearch-{{site.odfe_version}}-linux-arm64.tar.gz.sha512
   ```

   On CentOS, you might not have `shasum`. Install this package:

   ```bash
   sudo yum install perl-Digest-SHA
   ```

   Due to a [known issue](https://github.com/opendistro-for-elasticsearch/opendistro-build/issues/81) with the checksum, this step might fail. You can still proceed with the installation.

1. Extract the TAR file to a directory and change to that directory:

   ```bash
   # x64
   tar -zxf opendistroforelasticsearch-{{site.odfe_version}}-linux-x64.tar.gz
   cd opendistroforelasticsearch-{{site.odfe_version}}
   # ARM64
   tar -zxf opendistroforelasticsearch-{{site.odfe_version}}-linux-arm64.tar.gz
   cd opendistroforelasticsearch-{{site.odfe_version}}
   ```

1. Run Open Distro:

   ```bash
   ./opendistro-tar-install.sh
   ```

1. Open a second terminal session, and send requests to the server to verify that Open Distro is up and running:

   ```bash
   curl -XGET https://localhost:9200 -u 'admin:admin' --insecure
   curl -XGET https://localhost:9200/_cat/plugins?v -u 'admin:admin' --insecure
   ```


## Configuration

You can modify `config/elasticsearch.yml` or specify environment variables as arguments using `-E`:

```bash
./opendistro-tar-install.sh -Ecluster.name=odfe-cluster -Enode.name=odfe-node1 -Ehttp.host=0.0.0.0 -Ediscovery.type=single-node
```

For other settings, see [Important settings](../docker/#important-settings).


### (Optional) Set up Performance Analyzer

In a tarball installation, Performance Analyzer collects data when it is enabled. But in order to read that data using the REST API on port 9600, you must first manually launch the associated reader agent process:

1. Make Performance Analyzer accessible outside of the host machine

   ```bash
   cd /usr/share/elasticsearch # navigate to the Elasticsearch home directory
   cd plugins/opendistro_performance_analyzer/pa_config/
   vi performance-analyzer.properties
   ```

   Uncomment the line `#webservice-bind-host` and set it to `0.0.0.0`:

   ```
   # ======================== Elasticsearch performance analyzer plugin config =========================

   # NOTE: this is an example for Linux. Please modify the config accordingly if you are using it under other OS.

   # WebService bind host; default to all interfaces
   webservice-bind-host = 0.0.0.0

   # Metrics data location
   metrics-location = /dev/shm/performanceanalyzer/

   # Metrics deletion interval (minutes) for metrics data.
   # Interval should be between 1 to 60.
   metrics-deletion-interval = 1

   # If set to true, the system cleans up the files behind it. So at any point, we should expect only 2
   # metrics-db-file-prefix-path files. If set to false, no files are cleaned up. This can be useful, if you are archiving
   # the files and wouldn't like for them to be cleaned up.
   cleanup-metrics-db-files = true

   # WebService exposed by App's port
   webservice-listener-port = 9600

   # Metric DB File Prefix Path location
   metrics-db-file-prefix-path = /tmp/metricsdb_

   https-enabled = false

   #Setup the correct path for certificates
   certificate-file-path = specify_path

   private-key-file-path = specify_path

   # Plugin Stats Metadata file name, expected to be in the same location
   plugin-stats-metadata = plugin-stats-metadata

   # Agent Stats Metadata file name, expected to be in the same location
   agent-stats-metadata = agent-stats-metadata
   ```

1. Make the CLI executable:

   ```bash
   sudo chmod +x ./bin/performance-analyzer-agent-cli
   ```

1. Launch the agent CLI:

   ```bash
   ES_HOME="$PWD" ./bin/performance-analyzer-agent-cli
   ```

1. In a separate window, enable the Performance Analyzer plugin:

   ```bash
   curl -XPOST localhost:9200/_opendistro/_performanceanalyzer/cluster/config -H 'Content-Type: application/json' -d '{"enabled": true}'
   ```

   If you receive the `curl: (52) Empty reply from server` error, you are likely protecting your cluster with the security plugin and you need to provide credentials. Modify the following command to use your username and password:

   ```bash
   curl -XPOST https://localhost:9200/_opendistro/_performanceanalyzer/cluster/config -H 'Content-Type: application/json' -d '{"enabled": true}' -u 'admin:admin' -k
   ```

1. Finally, enable the Root Cause Analyzer (RCA) framework

   ```bash
   curl -XPOST localhost:9200/_opendistro/_performanceanalyzer/rca/cluster/config -H 'Content-Type: application/json' -d '{"enabled": true}'
   ```

   Similar to step 4, if you run into `curl: (52) Empty reply from server`, run the command below to enable RCA

   ```bash
   curl -XPOST https://localhost:9200/_opendistro/_performanceanalyzer/rca/cluster/config -H 'Content-Type: application/json' -d '{"enabled": true}' -u 'admin:admin' -k
   ```


### (Optional) Removing Performance Analyzer

See [Clean up Performance Analyzer files](../plugins/#optional-clean-up-performance-analyzer-files).
