docs/trace/data-prepper-reference.md, before:

---
layout: default
title: Configuration Reference
parent: Trace Analytics
nav_order: 25
---

# Data Prepper configuration reference

This page lists all supported Data Prepper sources, buffers, processors, and sinks, along with their associated options. For example configuration files, see [Data Prepper](../data-prepper/).


## General pipeline options

Option | Required | Description
:--- | :--- | :---
workers | No | Integer, default 1. Essentially the number of application threads. As a starting point for your use case, try setting this value to the number of CPU cores on the machine.
delay | No | Integer (milliseconds), default 3,000. How long workers wait between buffer read attempts.


## Sources

Sources define where your data comes from.


### otel_trace_source

Source for the OpenTelemetry Collector.

Option | Required | Description
:--- | :--- | :---
ssl | No | Boolean, whether to connect to the OpenTelemetry Collector over SSL.
sslKeyCertChainFile | No | String, path to the security certificate (e.g. `"config/demo-data-prepper.crt"`.
sslKeyFile | No | String, path to the security certificate key (e.g. `"config/demo-data-prepper.key"`).


### file

Source for flat file input.

Option | Required | Description
:--- | :--- | :---
path | Yes | String, path to the input file (e.g. `logs/my-log.log`).


### pipeline

Source for reading from another pipeline.

Option | Required | Description
:--- | :--- | :---
name | Yes | String, name of the pipeline to read from.


### stdin

Source for console input. Can be useful for testing. No options.


## Buffers

Buffers store data as it passes through the pipeline. If you implement a custom buffer, it can be memory-based (better performance) or disk-based (larger).


### bounded_blocking

The default buffer. Memory-based.

Option | Required | Description
:--- | :--- | :---
buffer_size | No | Integer, default 512. The maximum number of records the buffer accepts.
batch_size | No | Integer, default 8. The maximum number of records the buffer drains after each read.


## Processors

Processors perform some action on your data: filter, transform, enrich, etc.


### otel_trace_raw_processor

Converts OpenTelemetry data to Elasticsearch-compatible JSON documents. No options.


### service_map_stateful

Uses OpenTelemetry data to create a distributed service map for visualization in Kibana. No options.


### string_converter

Converts strings to uppercase or lowercase. Mostly useful as an example if you want to develop your own processor.

Option | Required | Description
:--- | :--- | :---
upper_case | No | Boolean, whether to convert to uppercase (`true`) or lowercase (`false`).


## Sinks

Sinks define where Data Prepper writes your data to.


### elasticsearch

Sink for an Elasticsearch cluster.

Option | Required | Description
:--- | :--- | :---
hosts | Yes | List of Elasticsearch hosts to write to (e.g. `["https://localhost:9200", "https://remote-cluster:9200"]`).
cert | No | String, path to the security certificate (e.g. `"config/root-ca.pem"`) if the cluster uses the Open Distro for Elasticsearch security plugin.
username | No | String, username for HTTP basic authentication.
password | No | String, password for HTTP basic authentication.
trace_analytics_raw | No | Boolean, default false. Whether to export as trace data to the `otel-v1-apm-span-*` index pattern (alias `otel-v1-apm-span`) for use with the Trace Analytics Kibana plugin.
trace_analytics_service_map | No | Boolean, default false. Whether to export as trace data to the `otel-v1-apm-service-map` index for use with the service map component of the Trace Analytics Kibana plugin.
index | No | String, name of the index to export to. Only required if you don't use the `trace_analytics_raw` or `trace_analytics_service_map` presets.
template_file | No | String, the path to a JSON [index template](https://opendistro.github.io/for-elasticsearch-docs/docs/elasticsearch/index-templates/) file (e.g. `/your/local/template-file.json` if you do not use the `trace_analytics_raw` or `trace_analytics_service_map`. See [otel-v1-apm-span-index-template.json](https://github.com/opendistro-for-elasticsearch/simple-ingest-transformation-utility-pipeline/blob/master/situp-plugins/elasticsearch/src/main/resources/otel-v1-apm-span-index-template.json) for an example.
document_id_field | No | String, the field from the source data to use for the Elasticsearch document ID (e.g. `"my-field"`) if you don't use the `trace_analytics_raw` or `trace_analytics_service_map` presets.
dlq_file | No | String, the path to your preferred dead letter queue file (e.g. `/your/local/dlq-file`). Data Prepper writes to this file when it fails to index a document on the Elasticsearch cluster.
bulk_size | No | Integer (long), default 5. The maximum size (in MiB) of bulk requests to the Elasticsearch cluster. Values below 0 indicate an unlimited size. If a single document exceeds the maximum bulk request size, Data Prepper sends it individually.


### file

Sink for flat file output.

Option | Required | Description
:--- | :--- | :---
path | Yes | String, path for the output file (e.g. `logs/my-transformed-log.log`).


### pipeline

Sink for writing to another pipeline.

Option | Required | Description
:--- | :--- | :---
name | Yes | String, name of the pipeline to write to.


### stdout

Sink for console output. Can be useful for testing. No options.

Commit message:

Adds IAM signing to reference

docs/trace/data-prepper-reference.md, after:

---
layout: default
title: Configuration Reference
parent: Trace Analytics
nav_order: 25
---

# Data Prepper configuration reference

This page lists all supported Data Prepper sources, buffers, processors, and sinks, along with their associated options. For example configuration files, see [Data Prepper](../data-prepper/).


## General pipeline options

Option | Required | Description
:--- | :--- | :---
workers | No | Integer, default 1. Essentially the number of application threads. As a starting point for your use case, try setting this value to the number of CPU cores on the machine.
delay | No | Integer (milliseconds), default 3,000. How long workers wait between buffer read attempts.


## Sources

Sources define where your data comes from.


### otel_trace_source

Source for the OpenTelemetry Collector.

Option | Required | Description
:--- | :--- | :---
ssl | No | Boolean, whether to connect to the OpenTelemetry Collector over SSL.
sslKeyCertChainFile | No | String, path to the security certificate (e.g. `"config/demo-data-prepper.crt"`.
sslKeyFile | No | String, path to the security certificate key (e.g. `"config/demo-data-prepper.key"`).


### file

Source for flat file input.

Option | Required | Description
:--- | :--- | :---
path | Yes | String, path to the input file (e.g. `logs/my-log.log`).


### pipeline

Source for reading from another pipeline.

Option | Required | Description
:--- | :--- | :---
name | Yes | String, name of the pipeline to read from.


### stdin

Source for console input. Can be useful for testing. No options.


## Buffers

Buffers store data as it passes through the pipeline. If you implement a custom buffer, it can be memory-based (better performance) or disk-based (larger).


### bounded_blocking

The default buffer. Memory-based.

Option | Required | Description
:--- | :--- | :---
buffer_size | No | Integer, default 512. The maximum number of records the buffer accepts.
batch_size | No | Integer, default 8. The maximum number of records the buffer drains after each read.


## Processors

Processors perform some action on your data: filter, transform, enrich, etc.


### otel_trace_raw_processor

Converts OpenTelemetry data to Elasticsearch-compatible JSON documents. No options.


### service_map_stateful

Uses OpenTelemetry data to create a distributed service map for visualization in Kibana. No options.


### string_converter

Converts strings to uppercase or lowercase. Mostly useful as an example if you want to develop your own processor.

Option | Required | Description
:--- | :--- | :---
upper_case | No | Boolean, whether to convert to uppercase (`true`) or lowercase (`false`).


## Sinks

Sinks define where Data Prepper writes your data to.


### elasticsearch

Sink for an Elasticsearch cluster.

Option | Required | Description
:--- | :--- | :---
hosts | Yes | List of Elasticsearch hosts to write to (e.g. `["https://localhost:9200", "https://remote-cluster:9200"]`).
cert | No | String, path to the security certificate (e.g. `"config/root-ca.pem"`) if the cluster uses the Open Distro for Elasticsearch security plugin.
username | No | String, username for HTTP basic authentication.
password | No | String, password for HTTP basic authentication.
aws_sigv4 | No | Boolean, whether to use IAM signing to connect to an Amazon Elasticsearch Service cluster. For your access key, secret key, and optional session token, Data Prepper uses the default credential chain (environment variables, Java system properties, `~/.aws/credential`, etc.).
aws_region | No | String, AWS region for the cluster (e.g. `"us-east-1"`) if you are connecting to Amazon Elasticsearch Service.
trace_analytics_raw | No | Boolean, default false. Whether to export as trace data to the `otel-v1-apm-span-*` index pattern (alias `otel-v1-apm-span`) for use with the Trace Analytics Kibana plugin.
trace_analytics_service_map | No | Boolean, default false. Whether to export as trace data to the `otel-v1-apm-service-map` index for use with the service map component of the Trace Analytics Kibana plugin.
index | No | String, name of the index to export to. Only required if you don't use the `trace_analytics_raw` or `trace_analytics_service_map` presets.
template_file | No | String, the path to a JSON [index template](https://opendistro.github.io/for-elasticsearch-docs/docs/elasticsearch/index-templates/) file (e.g. `/your/local/template-file.json` if you do not use the `trace_analytics_raw` or `trace_analytics_service_map`. See [otel-v1-apm-span-index-template.json](https://github.com/opendistro-for-elasticsearch/simple-ingest-transformation-utility-pipeline/blob/master/situp-plugins/elasticsearch/src/main/resources/otel-v1-apm-span-index-template.json) for an example.
document_id_field | No | String, the field from the source data to use for the Elasticsearch document ID (e.g. `"my-field"`) if you don't use the `trace_analytics_raw` or `trace_analytics_service_map` presets.
dlq_file | No | String, the path to your preferred dead letter queue file (e.g. `/your/local/dlq-file`). Data Prepper writes to this file when it fails to index a document on the Elasticsearch cluster.
bulk_size | No | Integer (long), default 5. The maximum size (in MiB) of bulk requests to the Elasticsearch cluster. Values below 0 indicate an unlimited size. If a single document exceeds the maximum bulk request size, Data Prepper sends it individually.


### file

Sink for flat file output.

Option | Required | Description
:--- | :--- | :---
path | Yes | String, path for the output file (e.g. `logs/my-transformed-log.log`).


### pipeline

Sink for writing to another pipeline.

Option | Required | Description
:--- | :--- | :---
name | Yes | String, name of the pipeline to write to.


### stdout

Sink for console output. Can be useful for testing. No options.
