docs/alerting/cron.md, before:

---
layout: default
title: Cron
nav_order: 5
parent: Alerting
has_children: false
---

# Cron expression reference

Monitors can run at a variety of fixed intervals (e.g. hourly, daily, etc.), but you can also define custom cron expressions for when they should run. Cron expressions in monitors support five fields:

Field | Valid values
:--- | :---
Minute | 0-59
Hour | 0-23
Day of month | 1-31
Month | 1-12
Day of week | 0-7 (0 and 7 are both Sunday)

For example, the following expression translates to "every Monday through Friday at 11:30 AM":

```
30 11 * * 1-5
```


## Features

Feature | Description
:--- | :---
`*` | Wildcard. Specifies all valid values.
`,` | List. Use to specify several values (e.g. `1,15,30`).
`-` | Range. Use to specify a range of values (e.g. `1-15`).
`/` | Step. Use after a wildcard or range to specify the "step" between values. For example, `0-11/2` is equivalent to `0,2,4,6,8,10`.

Note that you can specify the day using two fields: day of month and day of week. For most situations, we recommend that you use just one of these fields and leave the other as `*`.

If you use a non-wildcard value in both fields, the monitor runs when either field matches the time. For example, `15 2 1,15 * 1` causes the monitor to run at 2:15 AM on the 1st of the month, the 15th of the month, and every Monday.


## Sample expressions

Every other day at 1:45 PM:

```
45 13 1-31/2 * *
```

Every 10 minutes on Saturday and Sunday:

```
0/10 * * * 6-7
```

Every three hours on the first day of every other month:

```
0 0-23/3 1 1-12/2 *
```

Commit message:

Add that it's the Unix syntax

docs/alerting/cron.md, after:

---
layout: default
title: Cron
nav_order: 5
parent: Alerting
has_children: false
---

# Cron expression reference

Monitors can run at a variety of fixed intervals (e.g. hourly, daily, etc.), but you can also define custom cron expressions for when they should run. Monitors use the Unix cron syntax and support five fields:

Field | Valid values
:--- | :---
Minute | 0-59
Hour | 0-23
Day of month | 1-31
Month | 1-12
Day of week | 0-7 (0 and 7 are both Sunday)

For example, the following expression translates to "every Monday through Friday at 11:30 AM":

```
30 11 * * 1-5
```


## Features

Feature | Description
:--- | :---
`*` | Wildcard. Specifies all valid values.
`,` | List. Use to specify several values (e.g. `1,15,30`).
`-` | Range. Use to specify a range of values (e.g. `1-15`).
`/` | Step. Use after a wildcard or range to specify the "step" between values. For example, `0-11/2` is equivalent to `0,2,4,6,8,10`.

Note that you can specify the day using two fields: day of month and day of week. For most situations, we recommend that you use just one of these fields and leave the other as `*`.

If you use a non-wildcard value in both fields, the monitor runs when either field matches the time. For example, `15 2 1,15 * 1` causes the monitor to run at 2:15 AM on the 1st of the month, the 15th of the month, and every Monday.


## Sample expressions

Every other day at 1:45 PM:

```
45 13 1-31/2 * *
```

Every 10 minutes on Saturday and Sunday:

```
0/10 * * * 6-7
```

Every three hours on the first day of every other month:

```
0 0-23/3 1 1-12/2 *
```
