docs/security/access-control/users-roles.md, before:

---
layout: default
title: Users and Roles
parent: Access Control
grand_parent: Security
nav_order: 1
---

# Users and roles

The security plugin includes an internal user database. Use this database in place of or in addition to an external authentication system such as LDAP or Active Directory.

Roles are the core way of controlling access to your cluster. Roles contain any combination of cluster-wide permissions, index-specific permissions, document- and field-level security, and tenants. Then you map users to these roles so that users gain those permissions.

Unless you need to create new [read-only or hidden users](../api/#read-only-and-hidden-resources), we **highly** recommend using Kibana or the REST API to create new users, roles, and role mappings. The `.yml` files are for initial setup, not ongoing use.
{: .warning }

---

#### Table of contents
1. TOC
{:toc}


---

## Create users

You can create users using Kibana, `internal_users.yml`, or the REST API.

### Kibana

1. Choose **Security**, **Internal Users**, and **Create internal user**.
1. Provide a username and password. The security plugin automatically hashes the password and stores it in the `.opendistro_security` index.
1. If desired, specify user attributes.

   Attributes are optional user properties that you can use for variable substitution in index permissions or document-level security.

1. Choose **Submit**.


### internal_users.yml

See [YAML files](../../configuration/yaml/#internal_usersyml).


### REST API

See [Create user](../api/#create-user).


## Create roles

Just like users, you can create roles using Kibana, `roles.yml`, or the REST API.


### Kibana

1. Choose **Security**, **Roles**, and **Create role**.
1. Provide a name for the role.
1. Add permissions as desired.

   For example, you might give a role no cluster permissions, `read` permissions to two indices, `unlimited` permissions to a third index, and read permissions to the `analysts` tenant.

1. Choose **Submit**.


### roles.yml

See [YAML files](../../configuration/yaml/#rolesyml).


### REST API

See [Create role](../api/#create-role).


## Map users to roles

After creating roles, you map users (or backend roles) to them. Intuitively, people often think of this process as giving a user one or more roles, but in the security plugin, the process is reversed; you select a role and then map one or more users to it.

Just like users and roles, you create role mappings using Kibana, `roles_mapping.yml`, or the REST API.


### Kibana

1. Choose **Security**, **Roles**, and a role.
1. Choose the **Mapped users** tab and **Manage mapping**.
1. Specify users or external identities (also known as backend roles).
1. Choose **Map**.


### roles_mapping.yml

See [YAML files](../../configuration/yaml/#roles_mappingyml).


### REST API

See [Create role mapping](../api/#create-role-mapping).


## Predefined roles

The security plugin includes several predefined roles that serve as useful defaults.

Role | Description
:--- | :---
`all_access` | Grants full access to the cluster: all cluster-wide operations, write to all indices, write to all tenants.
`kibana_read_only` | A special role that prevents users from making changes to visualizations, dashboards, and other Kibana objects. See `opendistro_security.readonly_mode.roles` in `kibana.yml`. Pair with the `kibana_user` role.
`kibana_user` | Grants permissions to use Kibana: cluster-wide searches, index monitoring, and write to various Kibana indices.
`logstash` | Grants permissions for Logstash to interact with the cluster: cluster-wide searches, cluster monitoring, and write to the various Logstash indices.
`manage_snapshots` | Grants permissions to manage snapshot repositories, take snapshots, and restore snapshots.
`readall` | Grants permissions for cluster-wide searches like `msearch` and search permissions for all indices.
`readall_and_monitor` | Same as `readall`, but with added cluster monitoring permissions.
`security_rest_api_access` | A special role that allows access to the REST API. See `opendistro_security.restapi.roles_enabled` in `elasticsearch.yml` and [Access control for the API](../api/#access-control-for-the-api).

For more detailed summaries of the permissions for each role, reference their action groups against the descriptions in [Default action groups](../default-action-groups/).


## Sample roles

The following examples show how you might set up a read-only and a bulk access role.


### Set up a read-only user in Kibana

Create a new `read_only_index` role:

1. Open Kibana.
1. Choose **Security**, **Roles**.
1. Create a new role named `read_only_index`.
1. For **Cluster permissions**, add the `cluster_composite_ops_ro` action group.
1. For **Index Permissions**, add an index pattern. For example, you might specify `my-index-*`.
1. For index permissions, add the `read` action group.
1. Choose **Create**.

Map three roles to the read-only user:

1. Choose the **Mapped users** tab and **Manage mapping**.
1. For **Internal users**, add your read-only user.
1. Choose **Map**.
1. Repeat these steps for the `kibana_user` and `kibana_read_only` roles.


### Set up a bulk access role in Kibana

Create a new `bulk_access` role:

1. Open Kibana.
1. Choose **Security**, **Roles**.
1. Create a new role named `bulk_access`.
1. For **Cluster permissions**, add the `cluster_composite_ops` action group.
1. For **Index Permissions**, add an index pattern. For example, you might specify `my-index-*`.
1. For index permissions, add the `write` action group.
1. Choose **Create**.

Map the role to your user:

1. Choose the **Mapped users** tab and **Manage mapping**.
1. For **Internal users**, add your bulk access user.
1. Choose **Map**.

Commit message:

First cut at security for alerting

docs/security/access-control/users-roles.md, after:

---
layout: default
title: Users and Roles
parent: Access Control
grand_parent: Security
nav_order: 1
---

# Users and roles

The security plugin includes an internal user database. Use this database in place of or in addition to an external authentication system such as LDAP or Active Directory.

Roles are the core way of controlling access to your cluster. Roles contain any combination of cluster-wide permissions, index-specific permissions, document- and field-level security, and tenants. Then you map users to these roles so that users gain those permissions.

Unless you need to create new [read-only or hidden users](../api/#read-only-and-hidden-resources), we **highly** recommend using Kibana or the REST API to create new users, roles, and role mappings. The `.yml` files are for initial setup, not ongoing use.
{: .warning }

---

#### Table of contents
1. TOC
{:toc}


---

## Create users

You can create users using Kibana, `internal_users.yml`, or the REST API.

### Kibana

1. Choose **Security**, **Internal Users**, and **Create internal user**.
1. Provide a username and password. The security plugin automatically hashes the password and stores it in the `.opendistro_security` index.
1. If desired, specify user attributes.

   Attributes are optional user properties that you can use for variable substitution in index permissions or document-level security.

1. Choose **Submit**.


### internal_users.yml

See [YAML files](../../configuration/yaml/#internal_usersyml).


### REST API

See [Create user](../api/#create-user).


## Create roles

Just like users, you can create roles using Kibana, `roles.yml`, or the REST API.


### Kibana

1. Choose **Security**, **Roles**, and **Create role**.
1. Provide a name for the role.
1. Add permissions as desired.

   For example, you might give a role no cluster permissions, `read` permissions to two indices, `unlimited` permissions to a third index, and read permissions to the `analysts` tenant.

1. Choose **Submit**.


### roles.yml

See [YAML files](../../configuration/yaml/#rolesyml).


### REST API

See [Create role](../api/#create-role).


## Map users to roles

After creating roles, you map users (or backend roles) to them. Intuitively, people often think of this process as giving a user one or more roles, but in the security plugin, the process is reversed; you select a role and then map one or more users to it.

Just like users and roles, you create role mappings using Kibana, `roles_mapping.yml`, or the REST API.


### Kibana

1. Choose **Security**, **Roles**, and a role.
1. Choose the **Mapped users** tab and **Manage mapping**.
1. Specify users or external identities (also known as backend roles).
1. Choose **Map**.


### roles_mapping.yml

See [YAML files](../../configuration/yaml/#roles_mappingyml).


### REST API

See [Create role mapping](../api/#create-role-mapping).


## Predefined roles

The security plugin includes several predefined roles that serve as useful defaults.

Role | Description
:--- | :---
`alerting_ack_alerts` | Grants permissions to view and acknowledge alerts, but not modify destinations or monitors.
`alerting_full_access` | Grants full permissions to all alerting actions.
`alerting_read_access` | Grants permissions to view alerts, destinations, and monitors, but not acknowledge alerts or modify destinations or monitors.
`all_access` | Grants full access to the cluster: all cluster-wide operations, write to all indices, write to all tenants.
`kibana_read_only` | A special role that prevents users from making changes to visualizations, dashboards, and other Kibana objects. See `opendistro_security.readonly_mode.roles` in `kibana.yml`. Pair with the `kibana_user` role.
`kibana_user` | Grants permissions to use Kibana: cluster-wide searches, index monitoring, and write to various Kibana indices.
`logstash` | Grants permissions for Logstash to interact with the cluster: cluster-wide searches, cluster monitoring, and write to the various Logstash indices.
`manage_snapshots` | Grants permissions to manage snapshot repositories, take snapshots, and restore snapshots.
`readall` | Grants permissions for cluster-wide searches like `msearch` and search permissions for all indices.
`readall_and_monitor` | Same as `readall`, but with added cluster monitoring permissions.
`security_rest_api_access` | A special role that allows access to the REST API. See `opendistro_security.restapi.roles_enabled` in `elasticsearch.yml` and [Access control for the API](../api/#access-control-for-the-api).

For more detailed summaries of the permissions for each role, reference their action groups against the descriptions in [Default action groups](../default-action-groups/).


## Sample roles

The following examples show how you might set up a read-only and a bulk access role.


### Set up a read-only user in Kibana

Create a new `read_only_index` role:

1. Open Kibana.
1. Choose **Security**, **Roles**.
1. Create a new role named `read_only_index`.
1. For **Cluster permissions**, add the `cluster_composite_ops_ro` action group.
1. For **Index Permissions**, add an index pattern. For example, you might specify `my-index-*`.
1. For index permissions, add the `read` action group.
1. Choose **Create**.

Map three roles to the read-only user:

1. Choose the **Mapped users** tab and **Manage mapping**.
1. For **Internal users**, add your read-only user.
1. Choose **Map**.
1. Repeat these steps for the `kibana_user` and `kibana_read_only` roles.


### Set up a bulk access role in Kibana

Create a new `bulk_access` role:

1. Open Kibana.
1. Choose **Security**, **Roles**.
1. Create a new role named `bulk_access`.
1. For **Cluster permissions**, add the `cluster_composite_ops` action group.
1. For **Index Permissions**, add an index pattern. For example, you might specify `my-index-*`.
1. For index permissions, add the `write` action group.
1. Choose **Create**.

Map the role to your user:

1. Choose the **Mapped users** tab and **Manage mapping**.
1. For **Internal users**, add your bulk access user.
1. Choose **Map**.
